# Air-Quality-Sensor using Arduino-

Air is getting polluted because of release of toxic gases by industries, vehicle emissions and increased concentration of harmful gases and particulate matter in the atmosphere. The level of pollution is increasing rapidly due to factors like industries, urbanization, increasing in population, vehicle use which can affect human health. Particulate matter is  one of  the  most  important  parameter having  the  significant  contribution  to the increase in air pollution . This creates a need for measurement and analysis of real-time air quality monitoring so that appropriate decisions can be taken in a timely period.

In recent years, car emissions, chemicals from factories, smoke and dust are  everywhere. That is the reason why now air condition is  much polluted. The effect of air pollution is very bad for our health, especially for place where the air in our body is taken for breathing. In our lungs may cause some diseases, such as asthma, cough, lung disorders [1].The air pollution cannot be detected by human feelings. The air pollution may contain a lot of dangerous substances, such as LPG gas, carbon monoxide, and methane [2]. Substances in the polluted air are very dangerous. For example, if the carbon monoxide is above 100ppm, it makes human feel dizzy, nauseous, and within minutes they could die.

An air quality sensor is a device that measures and detects various pollutants presents in the air. The results of an air quality sensor can provide important information about the levels of various pollutants in the air. Some common pollutants that are measured by air quality sensors include particulate matter, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and others. Typically, the results of an air quality sensor are presented as numerical values or readings that indicate the concentration of each pollutant. These readings can be compared to air quality standards or guidelines set by regulatory agencies to determine if the air quality is within acceptable limits or if it may be harmful to human
health and sends a notification if the levels are worse. 

